# changeup-slackbot

## Installation

To run the examples in this project and build your own slack bot, you're going to need a few tools.

### Mac

1. Install `iTerm2`. You can use `Terminal` but I would recommend you install iTerm instead.
2. Open iTerm or Terminal and enter the command `/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"` to install `HomeBrew`
3. In iTerm or Terminal, type `brew install node`
4. Then type `npm i -g wt-cli`

### Windows

1. Install `Powershell`.
2. Choose your OS and install `Node` and `npm` from `https://nodejs.org/en/download/`
3. Then type `npm i -g wt-cli`

## Getting our bot on slack

1. Go to `https://api.slack.com/apps` and log in. Our space is `changeuparttech`.
2. Click `Create New App`. Give your app a name and choose the `ChangeUp` workspace.
3. If it doesn't automatically open, click your newly created app on the app list to edit it
4. Change the colour and display photo on the first page
5. When you're done, click `OAuth and Permissions` on the left sidebar. Under `Tokens for Your Workspace`, click install app to generate two tokens. Copy `Bot User OAuth Access Token` and save it somewhere!
6. Next, scroll down to `Scopes`. Where it says `Select Permission Scope` choose or type in `Send messages as <YOUR BOT NAME>`. Add the permission by clicking on it, then hit `Save Changes` at the bottom of the page.
7. Finally, go to `Bot Users` on the sidebar and turn the toggle to on. Name your bot user, flip the toggle so that they're always online, and hit `Save Changes`

## Setting up our code

To make a new bot, copy the template folder to a new folder and name the folder and the `.js` file inside the folder whatever you want to call your bot. For example, if my bot was called `love-detection-bot`, I would copy the `template/` folder to a folder called `love-detection-bot` and rename `template.js` inside the folder to `love-detection-bot.js`

## Writing Code

Open up your favourite text editor and edit the part of the code that says `YOUR CODE HERE`. Don't change any code other than what's inside there unless you know what you're doing ;). See the **Language Reference** section of this README for more information on how to write bot code!

## Bringing our bot to life!

To put our bot live, we need to do a few things. 

1. Open up `Terminal` or `Powershell`. Depending on where you saved this repository, run a command along the lines of
```
cd ~/Documents/MyOtherFolder/changeup-slack
```
if for example you saved this in a directory called MyOtherFolder in your Documents. For Windows users, I'm really not sure how this works but I assume / hope its the same.

2. From there, type in this command

```
wt create --secret BOT_TOKEN=<YOUR_BOT_TOKEN_YOU_COPIED_EARLIER> your-bot-name/your-bot-name.js

so that it looks something like

wt create --secret BOT_TOKEN=xoxb-hfhoihooih4545-gj439503 my-cool-bot/my-cool-bot.js

```
3. If all goes well, you'll be returned a URL, something like
```
You can access your webtask at the following url:

https://wt-1aba3e39daa55a2771548f7e7acc7534-0.sandbox.auth0-extend.com/my-cool-bot

```
Copy that URL and save it in a safe place!

4. Return to `https://api.slack.com/apps` and open your app from the list again.

5. Click `Event Subscriptions` on the left sidebar.

6. Copy the URL from step 3 and paste it where it says `Request URL`. If all goes well, it should say `Verified` in green

7. Scroll down to `Subscribe to Bot Events` and add any of these events that you want your bot to be able to respond to
`app_mention` - When someone @Mentions your bot
`message.channels` - Listens to chat in a channel the bot is invited to
`message.im` - Listens to direct message to the bot

## Language Reference

You can use any Javascript you want if you know it, but if you want to work within the framework here are some commands to play with!

----> `buildAdvancedMessage` <-----

**Usage:** `buildAdvancedMessage(codeFromMessageBuilder)`
**Information:** Utilizes code generated by `https://api.slack.com/docs/messages/builder` to create messages and dialogues to send the user. For more advanced usage, get in touch with me ! We can do cool stuff like polls and buttons here.





